---
title: "A Bayesian Approach for Personalized Federated Learning in Heterogeneous Settings"
source: "https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/b9a159b81a0535e3944ffdbd07ae3ba1-Abstract-Conference.html"
categories: ['privacy-preserving-federated-distributed-learning', 'statistical-divergence-and-distribution-learning']
tags: ['personalized-federated-learning', 'bayesian-inference', 'heterogeneous-clients']
venue: "NeurIPS 2024"
tldr: "A Bayesian personalized federated learning approach handles data and computational heterogeneity across decentralized clients."
---

# A Bayesian Approach for Personalized Federated Learning in Heterogeneous Settings

**Source**: [https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/b9a159b81a0535e3944ffdbd07ae3ba1-Abstract-Conference.html](https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/b9a159b81a0535e3944ffdbd07ae3ba1-Abstract-Conference.html)

**TLDR**: A Bayesian personalized federated learning approach handles data and computational heterogeneity across decentralized clients.

## Abstract

Federated learning (FL), through its privacy-preserving collaborative learning approach, has significantly empowered decentralized devices. However,  constraints in either data and/or computational resources among participating clients introduce several challenges in learning, including the inability to train large model architectures, heightened risks of overfitting, and more. In this work, we present a novel FL framework grounded in Bayesian learning to address these challenges. Our approach involves training personalized Bayesian models at each client tailored to the unique complexities of the clients' datasets and efficiently collaborating across these clients. By leveraging Bayesian neural networks and their uncertainty quantification capabilities, our local training procedure robustly learns from small datasets. And the novel collaboration procedure utilizing priors in the functional (output) space of the networks facilitates collaboration across models of varying sizes, enabling the framework to adapt well in heterogeneous data and computational settings. Furthermore, we present a differentially private version of the algorithm, accompanied by formal differential privacy guarantees that apply without any assumptions on the learning algorithm. Through experiments on popular FL datasets, we demonstrate that our approach outperforms strong baselines in both homogeneous and heterogeneous settings, and under strict privacy constraints.