---
title: "Generalized Linear Bandits with Limited Adaptivity"
source: "https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/0faa0019b0a8fcab8e6476bc43078e2e-Abstract-Conference.html"
categories: ['online-learning-augmented-algorithms-and-optimization']
tags: ['contextual-bandits', 'limited-adaptivity', 'generalized-linear-models']
venue: "NeurIPS 2024"
tldr: "Two algorithms are presented for generalized linear contextual bandits under limited adaptivity constraints on the number of policy updates."
---

# Generalized Linear Bandits with Limited Adaptivity

**Source**: [https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/0faa0019b0a8fcab8e6476bc43078e2e-Abstract-Conference.html](https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/0faa0019b0a8fcab8e6476bc43078e2e-Abstract-Conference.html)

**TLDR**: Two algorithms are presented for generalized linear contextual bandits under limited adaptivity constraints on the number of policy updates.

## Abstract

We study the generalized linear contextual bandit problem within the constraints of limited adaptivity.  In this paper, we present two algorithms, B-GLinCB and RS-GLinCB, that address, respectively, two prevalent limited adaptivity settings. Given a budget $M$ on the number of policy updates, in the first setting, the algorithm needs to decide upfront $M$ rounds at which it will update its policy, while in the second setting it can adaptively perform $M$ policy updates during its course. For the first setting, we design an algorithm B-GLinCB, that incurs $\tilde{O}(\sqrt{T})$ regret when $M = \Omega( \log{\log T} )$ and the arm feature vectors are generated stochastically. For the second setting, we design an algorithm RS-GLinCB that updates its policy $\tilde{O}(\log^2 T)$ times and achieves a regret of $\tilde{O}(\sqrt{T})$ even when the arm feature vectors are adversarially generated. Notably, in these bounds, we manage to eliminate the dependence on a key instance dependent parameter $\kappa$, that captures non-linearity of the underlying reward model. Our novel approach for removing this dependence for generalized linear contextual bandits might be of independent interest.