---
title: "Mutli-Armed Bandits with Network Interference"
source: "https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/40223e204a9e18dd8b01d7d11ea97939-Abstract-Conference.html"
categories: ['online-learning-augmented-algorithms-and-optimization', 'statistical-learning-theory-and-matrix-methods']
tags: ['multi-armed-bandits', 'network-interference', 'online-experimentation']
venue: "NeurIPS 2024"
tldr: "Proposes a multi-armed bandit framework that accounts for network interference in online experimentation settings like e-commerce and clinical trials."
---

# Mutli-Armed Bandits with Network Interference

**Source**: [https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/40223e204a9e18dd8b01d7d11ea97939-Abstract-Conference.html](https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/40223e204a9e18dd8b01d7d11ea97939-Abstract-Conference.html)

**TLDR**: Proposes a multi-armed bandit framework that accounts for network interference in online experimentation settings like e-commerce and clinical trials.

## Abstract

Online experimentation with interference is a common challenge in modern applications such as e-commerce and adaptive clinical trials in medicine. For example, in online marketplaces, the revenue of a good depends on discounts applied to competing goods. Statistical inference with interference is widely studied in the offline setting, but far less is known about how to adaptively assign treatments to minimize regret. We address this gap by studying a multi-armed bandit (MAB) problem where a learner (e-commerce platform) sequentially assigns one of possible $\mathcal{A}$ actions (discounts) to $N$ units (goods) over $T$ rounds to minimize regret (maximize revenue). Unlike traditional MAB problems, the reward of each unit depends on the treatments assigned to other units, i.e., there is *interference* across the underlying network of units. With $\mathcal{A}$ actions and $N$ units, minimizing regret is combinatorially difficult since the action space grows as $\mathcal{A}^N$. To overcome this issue, we study a *sparse network interference* model, where the reward of a unit is only affected by the treatments assigned to $s$ neighboring units. We use tools from discrete Fourier analysis to develop a sparse linear representation of the unit-specific reward $r_n: [\mathcal{A}]^N \rightarrow \mathbb{R} $, and propose simple, linear regression-based algorithms to minimize regret. Importantly, our algorithms achieve provably low regret both when the learner observes the interference neighborhood for all units and when it is unknown. This significantly generalizes other works on this topic which impose strict conditions on the strength of interference on a *known* network, and also compare regret to a markedly weaker optimal action. Empirically, we corroborate our theoretical findings via numerical simulations.