---
title: "SkipPredict: When to Invest in Predictions for Scheduling"
source: "https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/becd02b89259774da2ede23116a80648-Abstract-Conference.html"
categories: ['online-learning-augmented-algorithms-and-optimization', 'query-efficient-algorithms-with-imperfect-oracles']
tags: ['scheduling', 'predictions', 'queueing-theory']
venue: "NeurIPS 2024"
tldr: "SkipPredict studies when it is cost-effective to invest in job size predictions for scheduling by accounting for the resource cost of predictions within queueing systems."
---

# SkipPredict: When to Invest in Predictions for Scheduling

**Source**: [https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/becd02b89259774da2ede23116a80648-Abstract-Conference.html](https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/becd02b89259774da2ede23116a80648-Abstract-Conference.html)

**TLDR**: SkipPredict studies when it is cost-effective to invest in job size predictions for scheduling by accounting for the resource cost of predictions within queueing systems.

## Abstract

Expanding on recent work on scheduling with predicted job sizes, we consider the effect of the cost of predictions in queueing systems, removing the assumption in prior research that predictions are external to the system’s resources and/or cost-free. Additionally, we introduce a novel approach to utilizing predictions, SkipPredict, designed to address their inherent cost. Rather than uniformly applying predictions to all jobs, we propose a tailored approach that categorizes jobs to improve the effectiveness of prediction on performance. To achieve this, we employ one-bit “cheap predictions” to classify jobs as either short or long. SkipPredict prioritizes predicted short jobs over long jobs, and for the long jobs, SkipPredict applies a second round of more detailed “expensive predictions” to approximate Shortest Remaining Processing Time for these jobs. Importantly, our analyses take into account the cost of prediction. We derive closed-form formulas that calculate the mean response time of jobs with size predictions accounting for the prediction cost. We examine the effect of this cost for two distinct models in real-world and synthetic datasets. In the external cost model, predictions are generated by external method without impacting job service times but incur a cost. In the server time cost model, predictions themselves require server processing time and are scheduled on the same server as the jobs.