---
title: "Lighting Every Darkness with 3DGS: Fast Training and Real-Time Rendering for HDR View Synthesis"
source: "https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/92dd1adab39f362046f99dfe3c39d90f-Abstract-Conference.html"
categories: ['neural-geometric-shape-representation-learning']
tags: ['3D-Gaussian-splatting', 'HDR-view-synthesis', 'nighttime-imaging', 'real-time-rendering', 'NeRF']
venue: "NeurIPS 2024"
tldr: "A 3D Gaussian Splatting-based method is proposed for fast training and real-time HDR view synthesis from RAW nighttime images."
---

# Lighting Every Darkness with 3DGS: Fast Training and Real-Time Rendering for HDR View Synthesis

**Source**: [https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/92dd1adab39f362046f99dfe3c39d90f-Abstract-Conference.html](https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/92dd1adab39f362046f99dfe3c39d90f-Abstract-Conference.html)

**TLDR**: A 3D Gaussian Splatting-based method is proposed for fast training and real-time HDR view synthesis from RAW nighttime images.

## Abstract

Volumetric rendering-based methods, like NeRF, excel in HDR view synthesis from RAW images, especially for nighttime scenes. They suffer from long training times and cannot perform real-time rendering due to dense sampling requirements. The advent of 3D Gaussian Splatting (3DGS) enables real-time rendering and faster training. However, implementing RAW image-based view synthesis directly using 3DGS is challenging due to its inherent drawbacks: 1) in nighttime scenes, extremely low SNR leads to poor structure-from-motion (SfM) estimation in dis- tant views; 2) the limited representation capacity of the spherical harmonics (SH) function is unsuitable for RAW linear color space; and 3) inaccurate scene structure hampers downstream tasks such as refocusing. To address these issues, we propose LE3D (Lighting Every darkness with 3DGS). Our method proposes Cone Scatter Initialization to enrich the estimation of SfM and replaces SH with a Color MLP to represent the RAW linear color space. Additionally, we introduce depth distortion and near-far regularizations to improve the accuracy of scene structure for down- stream tasks. These designs enable LE3D to perform real-time novel view synthesis, HDR rendering, refocusing, and tone-mapping changes. Compared to previous vol- umetric rendering-based methods, LE3D reduces training time to 1% and improves rendering speed by up to 4,000 times for 2K resolution images in terms of FPS. Code and viewer can be found in https://srameo.github.io/projects/le3d.