---
title: "Learning from Snapshots of Discrete and Continuous Data Streams"
source: "https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/929814ae1e76ae131a473e3f30609fef-Abstract-Conference.html"
categories: ['stochastic-sequential-learning-temporal-dynamics']
tags: ['data-streams', 'snapshot-learning', 'adaptive-sampling', 'stochastic-processes', 'sequential-learning']
venue: "NeurIPS 2024"
tldr: "A framework is developed for learning from adaptively chosen snapshots of both discrete and continuous data streams."
---

# Learning from Snapshots of Discrete and Continuous Data Streams

**Source**: [https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/929814ae1e76ae131a473e3f30609fef-Abstract-Conference.html](https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/929814ae1e76ae131a473e3f30609fef-Abstract-Conference.html)

**TLDR**: A framework is developed for learning from adaptively chosen snapshots of both discrete and continuous data streams.

## Abstract

Imagine a smart camera trap selectively clicking pictures to understand animal movement patterns within a particular habitat. These "snapshots", or pieces of data captured from a data stream at adaptively chosen times, provide a glimpse of different animal movements unfolding through time. Learning a continuous-time process through snapshots, such as smart camera traps, is a central theme governing a wide array of online learning situations. In this paper, we adopt a learning-theoretic perspective in understanding the fundamental nature of learning different classes of functions from both discrete data streams and continuous data streams. In our first framework, the update-and-deploy setting, a learning algorithm discretely queries from a process to update a predictor designed to make predictions given as input the data stream. We construct a uniform sampling algorithm that can learn with bounded error any concept class with finite Littlestone dimension. Our second framework, known as the blind-prediction setting, consists of a learning algorithm generating predictions independently of observing the process, only engaging with the process when it chooses to make queries. Interestingly, we show a stark contrast in learnability where non-trivial concept classes are unlearnable. However, we show that adaptive learning algorithms are necessary to learn sets of time-dependent and data-dependent functions, called pattern classes, in either framework. Finally, we develop a theory of pattern classes under discrete data streams for the blind-prediction setting.