---
title: "Low-Rank Optimal Transport through Factor Relaxation with Latent Coupling"
source: "https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/cfc1924c62e72e2cb0e0feeecb963241-Abstract-Conference.html"
categories: ['optimal-transport-and-learning-theory']
tags: ['optimal-transport', 'low-rank', 'latent-coupling', 'factor-relaxation', 'scalable']
venue: "NeurIPS 2024"
tldr: "This paper proposes a low-rank optimal transport method via factor relaxation with latent coupling to scale OT to massive datasets."
---

# Low-Rank Optimal Transport through Factor Relaxation with Latent Coupling

**Source**: [https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/cfc1924c62e72e2cb0e0feeecb963241-Abstract-Conference.html](https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/cfc1924c62e72e2cb0e0feeecb963241-Abstract-Conference.html)

**TLDR**: This paper proposes a low-rank optimal transport method via factor relaxation with latent coupling to scale OT to massive datasets.

## Abstract

Optimal transport (OT) is a general framework for finding a minimum-cost transport plan, or coupling, between probability distributions, and has many applications in machine learning. A key challenge in applying OT to massive datasets is the quadratic scaling of the coupling matrix with the size of the dataset. [Forrow et al. 2019] introduced a factored coupling for the k-Wasserstein barycenter problem, which [Scetbon et al. 2021] adapted to solve the primal low-rank OT problem. We derive an alternative parameterization of the low-rank problem based on the latent coupling (LC) factorization previously introduced by [Lin et al. 2021] generalizing [Forrow et al. 2019]. The LC factorization has multiple  advantages for low-rank OT including decoupling the problem into three OT problems and greater flexibility and interpretability. We leverage these advantages to derive a new algorithm Factor Relaxation with Latent Coupling (FRLC), which uses coordinate mirror descent to compute the LC factorization. FRLC handles multiple OT objectives (Wasserstein, Gromov-Wasserstein, Fused Gromov-Wasserstein), and marginal constraints (balanced, unbalanced, and semi-relaxed) with linear space complexity. We provide theoretical results on FRLC, and demonstrate superior performance on diverse applications -- including graph clustering and spatial transcriptomics --  while demonstrating its interpretability.