---
title: "SEA-GWNN: Simple and Effective Adaptive Graph Wavelet Neural Network"
source: "https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/69171fd2fdc94b2b8c7b49d0a36a11edb62afa56"
categories: ['topological-geometric-data-representation', 'graph-learning-clustering-multiview-federated']
tags: ['graph-neural-networks', 'wavelets', 'adaptive-filters']
venue: "AAAI 2024"
tldr: "Proposes a simple and effective adaptive graph wavelet neural network that learns wavelet filters for improved node classification."
---

# SEA-GWNN: Simple and Effective Adaptive Graph Wavelet Neural Network

**Source**: [https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/69171fd2fdc94b2b8c7b49d0a36a11edb62afa56](https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/69171fd2fdc94b2b8c7b49d0a36a11edb62afa56)

**TLDR**: Proposes a simple and effective adaptive graph wavelet neural network that learns wavelet filters for improved node classification.

## Abstract

The utilization of wavelet-based techniques in graph neural networks (GNNs) has gained considerable attention, particularly in the context of node classification. Although existing wavelet-based approaches have shown promise, they are constrained by their reliance on pre-defined wavelet filters, rendering them incapable of effectively adapting to signals that reside on graphs based on tasks at hand. Recent research endeavors address this issue through the introduction of a wavelet lifting transform. However, this technique necessitates the use of bipartite graphs, causing a transformation of the original graph structure into a bipartite configuration. This alteration of graph topology results in the generation of undesirable wavelet filters, thereby undermining the effectiveness of the method. In response to these challenges, we propose a novel simple and effective adaptive graph wavelet neural network (SEA-GWNN) class that employs the lifting scheme on arbitrary graph structures while upholding the original graph topology by leveraging multi-hop computation trees. A noteworthy aspect of the approach is the focus on local substructures represented as acyclic trees, wherein the lifting strategy is applied in a localized manner. This locally defined lifting scheme effectively combines high-pass and low-pass frequency information to enhance node representations. Furthermore, to reduce computing costs, we propose to decouple the higher- order lifting operators and induce them from the lower-order structures. Finally, we benchmark our model on several real- world datasets spanning four distinct categories, including citation networks, webpages, the film industry, and large-scale graphs and the experimental results showcase the efficacy of the proposed SEA-GWNN.