---
title: "TAU: Trajectory Data Augmentation with Uncertainty for Next POI Recommendation"
source: "https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/f1d82de40b50ea7d23320e97910788692d3822c5"
categories: ['graph-learning-clustering-multiview-federated']
tags: ['recommender-systems', 'trajectory-data', 'data-augmentation', 'uncertainty']
venue: "AAAI 2024"
tldr: "Proposes a trajectory data augmentation method with uncertainty modeling for next point-of-interest recommendation."
---

# TAU: Trajectory Data Augmentation with Uncertainty for Next POI Recommendation

**Source**: [https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/f1d82de40b50ea7d23320e97910788692d3822c5](https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/f1d82de40b50ea7d23320e97910788692d3822c5)

**TLDR**: Proposes a trajectory data augmentation method with uncertainty modeling for next point-of-interest recommendation.

## Abstract

Next Point-of-Interest (POI) recommendation has been proven effective at utilizing sparse, intricate spatial-temporal trajectory data to recommend subsequent POIs to users. While existing methods commonly alleviate the problem of data sparsity by integrating spatial-temporal context information, POI category features, and social relationships, they largely overlook the fact that the trajectory sequences collected in the datasets are often incomplete. This oversight limits the model’s potential to fully leverage historical context. In light of this background, we propose Trajectory Data Augmentation with Uncertainty (TAU) for Next POI Recommendation. TAU is a general graph-based trajectory data augmentation method designed to complete user mobility patterns by marrying uncertainty estimation into the next POI recommendation task. More precisely, TAU taps into the global transition pattern graph to identify sets of intermediate nodes located between every pair of locations, effectively
leveraging edge weights as transition probabilities. During trajectory sequence construction, TAU selectively prompts intermediate nodes, chosen based on their likelihood of occurrence as pseudo-labels, to establish comprehensive trajectory sequences. Furthermore, to gauge the certainty and impact of pseudo-labels on the target location, we introduce a novel confidence-aware calibration strategy using evidence deep learning (EDL) for improved performance and reliability. The experimental results clearly indicate that our TAU method achieves consistent performance improvements over existing techniques across two real-world datasets, verifying its effectiveness as the state-of-the-art approach to the task.