---
title: "Universal Rates for Active Learning"
source: "https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/88a129e44f25a571ae8b838057c46855-Abstract-Conference.html"
categories: ['machine-learning-theory-and-evaluation-methods', 'query-efficient-algorithms-with-imperfect-oracles']
tags: ['active-learning', 'universal-rates', 'binary-classification']
venue: "NeurIPS 2024"
tldr: "Establishes universal learning rates for active learning of binary classifiers that adaptively achieve optimal performance across concept classes."
---

# Universal Rates for Active Learning

**Source**: [https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/88a129e44f25a571ae8b838057c46855-Abstract-Conference.html](https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/88a129e44f25a571ae8b838057c46855-Abstract-Conference.html)

**TLDR**: Establishes universal learning rates for active learning of binary classifiers that adaptively achieve optimal performance across concept classes.

## Abstract

In this work we study the problem of actively learning binary classifiers  from a given concept class, i.e., learning by utilizing unlabeled data   and submitting targeted queries about their labels to a domain expert.  We evaluate the quality of our solutions by considering the learning curves  they induce, i.e., the rate of decrease  of the misclassification probability as the number of label queries  increases. The majority of the literature on active learning has   focused on obtaining uniform guarantees on the error rate which are  only able to explain the upper envelope of the learning curves over families  of different data-generating distributions. We diverge from this line of  work and we focus on the distribution-dependent framework of universal  learning whose goal is to obtain guarantees that hold for any fixed distribution,  but do not apply uniformly over all the distributions. We provide a   complete characterization of the optimal learning rates that are achievable  by algorithms that have to specify the number of unlabeled examples they  use ahead of their execution. Moreover, we identify combinatorial complexity  measures that give rise to each case of our tetrachotomic characterization.  This resolves an open question that was posed by Balcan et al. (2010).  As a byproduct of our main result,  we develop an active learning algorithm for partial concept classes  that achieves exponential learning rates in the uniform setting.