---
title: "Multi-Label Learning with Stronger Consistency Guarantees"
source: "https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/04ad66d02234541aac5143de7876e880-Abstract-Conference.html"
categories: ['machine-learning-theory-and-evaluation-methods', 'statistical-learning-theory-and-matrix-methods']
tags: ['multi-label-learning', 'surrogate-losses', 'h-consistency-bounds']
venue: "NeurIPS 2024"
tldr: "This paper provides H-consistency bounds for surrogate losses in multi-label learning, revealing sub-optimalities and proposing improved algorithms."
---

# Multi-Label Learning with Stronger Consistency Guarantees

**Source**: [https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/04ad66d02234541aac5143de7876e880-Abstract-Conference.html](https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/04ad66d02234541aac5143de7876e880-Abstract-Conference.html)

**TLDR**: This paper provides H-consistency bounds for surrogate losses in multi-label learning, revealing sub-optimalities and proposing improved algorithms.

## Abstract

We present a detailed study of surrogate losses and algorithms for multi-label learning, supported by $H$-consistency bounds. We first show that, for the simplest form of multi-label loss (the popular Hamming loss), the well-known consistent binary relevance surrogate suffers from a sub-optimal dependency on the number of labels in terms of $H$-consistency bounds, when using smooth losses such as logistic losses. Furthermore, this loss function fails to account for label correlations. To address these drawbacks, we introduce a novel surrogate loss, *multi-label logistic loss*,  that accounts for label correlations and benefits from label-independent $H$-consistency bounds. We then broaden our analysis to cover a more extensive family of multi-label losses, including all common ones and a new extension defined based on linear-fractional functions with respect to the confusion matrix. We also extend our multi-label logistic losses to more comprehensive multi-label comp-sum losses, adapting comp-sum losses from standard classification to the multi-label learning. We prove that this family of surrogate losses benefits from $H$-consistency bounds, and thus Bayes-consistency, across any general multi-label loss. Our work thus proposes a unified surrogate loss framework benefiting from strong consistency guarantees for any multi-label loss, significantly expanding upon previous work which only established Bayes-consistency and for specific loss functions. Additionally, we adapt constrained losses from standard classification to multi-label constrained losses in a similar way, which also benefit from $H$-consistency bounds and thus Bayes-consistency for any multi-label loss. We further describe efficient gradient computation algorithms for minimizing the multi-label logistic loss.