---
title: "On the Robustness of Spectral Algorithms for Semirandom Stochastic Block Models"
source: "https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/cce7576bf51b6a156346156c0976e7f6-Abstract-Conference.html"
categories: ['statistical-learning-theory-and-matrix-methods', 'statistical-computational-tradeoffs-high-dimensional-learning']
tags: ['spectral-clustering', 'stochastic-block-model', 'semirandom-graphs', 'community-detection', 'robustness']
venue: "NeurIPS 2024"
tldr: "Analyzes robustness of spectral algorithms for graph bisection under semirandom stochastic block model perturbations."
---

# On the Robustness of Spectral Algorithms for Semirandom Stochastic Block Models

**Source**: [https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/cce7576bf51b6a156346156c0976e7f6-Abstract-Conference.html](https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/cce7576bf51b6a156346156c0976e7f6-Abstract-Conference.html)

**TLDR**: Analyzes robustness of spectral algorithms for graph bisection under semirandom stochastic block model perturbations.

## Abstract

In a graph bisection problem, we are given a graph $G$ with two equally-sized unlabeled communities, and the goal is to recover the vertices in these communities. A popular heuristic, known as spectral clustering, is to output an estimated community assignment based on the eigenvector corresponding to the second-smallest eigenvalue of the Laplacian of $G$. Spectral algorithms can be shown to provably recover the cluster structure for graphs generated from probabilistic models, such as the Stochastic Block Model (SBM). However, spectral clustering is known to be non-robust to model mis-specification. Techniques based on semidefinite programming have been shown to be more robust, but they incur significant computational overheads. In this work, we study the robustness of spectral algorithms against semirandom adversaries. Informally, a semirandom adversary is allowed to ``helpfully'' change the specification of the model in a way that is consistent with the ground-truth solution. Our semirandom adversaries in particular are allowed to add edges inside clusters or increase the probability that an edge appears inside a cluster. Semirandom adversaries are a useful tool to determine the extent to which an algorithm has overfit to statistical assumptions on the input. On the positive side, we identify a wide range of semirandom adversaries under which spectral bisection using the _unnormalized_ Laplacian is strongly consistent, i.e., it exactly recovers the planted partitioning. On the negative side, we show that in many of these settings, _normalized_ spectral bisection outputs a partitioning that makes a classification mistake on a constant fraction of the vertices. Finally, we demonstrate numerical experiments that complement our theoretical findings.