---
title: "MSAGPT: Neural Prompting Protein Structure Prediction via MSA Generative Pre-Training"
source: "https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/41f3347f8f47c17bbadaed584e68d8bd-Abstract-Conference.html"
categories: ['machine-learning-for-molecular-biology']
tags: ['protein-structure-prediction', 'MSA', 'generative-pretraining']
venue: "NeurIPS 2024"
tldr: "Introduces MSAGPT, a generative pre-training framework for producing high-quality multiple sequence alignments to improve protein structure prediction."
---

# MSAGPT: Neural Prompting Protein Structure Prediction via MSA Generative Pre-Training

**Source**: [https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/41f3347f8f47c17bbadaed584e68d8bd-Abstract-Conference.html](https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/41f3347f8f47c17bbadaed584e68d8bd-Abstract-Conference.html)

**TLDR**: Introduces MSAGPT, a generative pre-training framework for producing high-quality multiple sequence alignments to improve protein structure prediction.

## Abstract

Multiple Sequence Alignment (MSA) plays a pivotal role in unveiling the evolutionary trajectories of protein families. The accuracy of protein structure predictions is often compromised for protein sequences that lack sufficient homologous information to construct high-quality MSA. Although various methods have been proposed to generate high-quality MSA under these conditions, they fall short in comprehensively capturing the intricate co-evolutionary patterns within MSA or require guidance from external oracle models. Here we introduce MSAGPT, a novel approach to prompt protein structure predictions via MSA generative pre-training in a low-MSA regime. MSAGPT employs a simple yet effective 2D evolutionary positional encoding scheme to model the complex evolutionary patterns. Endowed by this, the flexible 1D MSA decoding framework facilitates zero- or few-shot learning. Moreover, we demonstrate leveraging the feedback from AlphaFold2 (AF2) can further enhance the model’s capacity via Rejective Fine-tuning (RFT) and Reinforcement Learning from AF2 Feedback (RLAF). Extensive experiments confirm the efficacy of MSAGPT in generating faithful and informative MSA (up to +8.5% TM-Score on few-shot scenarios). The transfer learning also demonstrates its great potential for the wide range of tasks resorting to the quality of MSA.