---
title: "Are nuclear masks all you need for improved out-of-domain generalisation? A closer look at cancer classification in histopathology"
source: "https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/4cc4cc789849230a4f495a2060b45c87-Abstract-Conference.html"
categories: ['machine-learning-for-molecular-biology']
tags: ['histopathology', 'domain-generalization', 'nuclear-segmentation']
venue: "NeurIPS 2024"
tldr: "Investigates whether focusing on nuclear masks improves out-of-domain generalization for cancer classification in computational histopathology."
---

# Are nuclear masks all you need for improved out-of-domain generalisation? A closer look at cancer classification in histopathology

**Source**: [https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/4cc4cc789849230a4f495a2060b45c87-Abstract-Conference.html](https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/4cc4cc789849230a4f495a2060b45c87-Abstract-Conference.html)

**TLDR**: Investigates whether focusing on nuclear masks improves out-of-domain generalization for cancer classification in computational histopathology.

## Abstract

Domain generalisation in computational histopathology is challenging because the images are substantially affected by differences among hospitals due to factors like fixation and staining of tissue and imaging equipment. We hypothesise that focusing on nuclei can improve the out-of-domain (OOD) generalisation in cancer detection. We propose a simple approach to improve OOD generalisation for cancer detection by focusing on nuclear morphology and organisation, as these are domain-invariant features critical in cancer detection. Our approach integrates original images with nuclear segmentation masks during training, encouraging the model to prioritise nuclei and their spatial arrangement. Going beyond mere data augmentation, we introduce a regularisation technique that aligns the representations of masks and original images. We show, using multiple datasets, that our method improves OOD generalisation and also leads to increased robustness to image corruptions and adversarial attacks. The source code is available at https://github.com/undercutspiky/SFL/