---
title: "A probability contrastive learning framework for 3D molecular representation learning"
source: "https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/6adaf0cbeba11705d4ea67a62044f63d-Abstract-Conference.html"
categories: ['machine-learning-for-molecular-biology']
tags: ['contrastive-learning', '3d-molecular-representation', 'drug-design']
venue: "NeurIPS 2024"
tldr: "Presents a probability contrastive learning framework for 3D molecular representation learning applied to property prediction and drug design."
---

# A probability contrastive learning framework for 3D molecular representation learning

**Source**: [https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/6adaf0cbeba11705d4ea67a62044f63d-Abstract-Conference.html](https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/6adaf0cbeba11705d4ea67a62044f63d-Abstract-Conference.html)

**TLDR**: Presents a probability contrastive learning framework for 3D molecular representation learning applied to property prediction and drug design.

## Abstract

Contrastive Learning (CL) plays a crucial role in molecular representation learning, enabling unsupervised learning from large scale unlabeled molecule datasets. It has inspired various applications in molecular property prediction and drug design.However, existing molecular representation learning methods often introduce potential false positive and false negative pairs through conventional graph augmentations like node masking and subgraph removal. The issue can lead to suboptimal performance when applying standard contrastive learning techniques to molecular datasets. To address the issue of false positive and negative pairs in molecular representation learning, we propose a novel probability-based contrastive learning (CL) framework. Unlike conventional methods, our approach introduces a learnable weight distribution via Bayesian modeling to automatically identify and mitigate false positive and negative pairs. This method is particularly effective because it dynamically adjusts to the data, improving the accuracy of the learned representations. Our model is learned by a stochastic expectation-maximization process, which optimizes the model by iteratively refining the probability estimates of sample weights and updating the model parameters.Experimental results indicate that our method outperforms existing approaches in 13 out of 15 molecular property prediction benchmarks in MoleculeNet dataset and 8 out of 12 benchmarks in the QM9 benchmark, achieving new state-of-the-art results on average.