---
title: "Data-Driven Discovery of Dynamical Systems in Pharmacology using Large Language Models"
source: "https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/aea8bdc42d8ba3a67a69b3f18be93f69-Abstract-Conference.html"
categories: ['machine-learning-for-molecular-biology', 'time-series-forecasting-and-analysis']
tags: ['dynamical-systems-discovery', 'pharmacology', 'large-language-models']
venue: "NeurIPS 2024"
tldr: "Large language models are used to data-drivenly discover interpretable dynamical system equations in pharmacological and epidemiological settings."
---

# Data-Driven Discovery of Dynamical Systems in Pharmacology using Large Language Models

**Source**: [https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/aea8bdc42d8ba3a67a69b3f18be93f69-Abstract-Conference.html](https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/aea8bdc42d8ba3a67a69b3f18be93f69-Abstract-Conference.html)

**TLDR**: Large language models are used to data-drivenly discover interpretable dynamical system equations in pharmacological and epidemiological settings.

## Abstract

The discovery of dynamical systems is crucial across a range of fields, including pharmacology, epidemiology, and physical sciences. Accurate and interpretable modeling of these systems is essential for understanding complex temporal processes, optimizing interventions, and minimizing adverse effects. In pharmacology, for example, precise modeling of drug dynamics is vital to maximize therapeutic efficacy while minimizing patient harm, as in chemotherapy. However, current models, often developed by human experts, are limited by high cost, lack of scalability, and restriction to existing human knowledge. In this paper, we present the Data-Driven Discovery (D3) framework, a novel approach leveraging Large Language Models (LLMs) to iteratively discover and refine interpretable models of dynamical systems, demonstrated here with pharmacological applications. Unlike traditional methods, D3 enables the LLM to propose, acquire, and integrate new features, validate, and compare dynamical systems models, uncovering new insights into pharmacokinetics. Experiments on a pharmacokinetic Warfarin dataset reveal that D3 identifies a new plausible model that is well-fitting, highlighting its potential for precision dosing in clinical applications.