---
title: "Extracting Training Data from Molecular Pre-trained Models"
source: "https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/b17e1642998a8214be240b3056f5faa5-Abstract-Conference.html"
categories: ['machine-learning-for-molecular-biology']
tags: ['graph-neural-networks', 'training-data-extraction', 'privacy']
venue: "NeurIPS 2024"
tldr: "This paper demonstrates that training data can be extracted from molecular pre-trained GNN models, raising privacy concerns in drug discovery."
---

# Extracting Training Data from Molecular Pre-trained Models

**Source**: [https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/b17e1642998a8214be240b3056f5faa5-Abstract-Conference.html](https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/b17e1642998a8214be240b3056f5faa5-Abstract-Conference.html)

**TLDR**: This paper demonstrates that training data can be extracted from molecular pre-trained GNN models, raising privacy concerns in drug discovery.

## Abstract

Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) have significantly advanced the field of drug discovery, enhancing the speed and efficiency of molecular identification. However, training these GNNs demands vast amounts of molecular data, which has spurred the emergence of collaborative model-sharing initiatives. These initiatives facilitate the sharing of molecular pre-trained models among organizations without exposing proprietary training data. Despite the benefits, these molecular pre-trained models may still pose privacy risks. For example, malicious adversaries could perform data extraction attack to recover private training data, thereby threatening commercial secrets and collaborative trust. This work, for the first time, explores the risks of extracting private training molecular data from molecular pre-trained models. This task is nontrivial as the molecular pre-trained models are non-generative and exhibit a diversity of model architectures, which differs significantly from language and image models. To address these issues, we introduce a molecule generation approach and propose a novel, model-independent scoring function for selecting promising molecules. To efficiently reduce the search space of potential molecules, we further introduce a Molecule Extraction Policy Network for molecule extraction. Our experiments demonstrate that even with only query access to molecular pre-trained models, there is a considerable risk of extracting training data, challenging the assumption that model sharing alone provides adequate protection against data extraction attacks. Our codes are publicly available at: \url{https://github.com/renH2/Molextract}.