---
title: "Neural Collapse To Multiple Centers For Imbalanced Data"
source: "https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/78a2ed8e7da1829d64fb3561adbd706b-Abstract-Conference.html"
categories: ['theoretical-foundations-of-neural-network-geometry', 'deep-learning-optimization-and-generalization-theory']
tags: ['neural-collapse', 'imbalanced-data', 'geometric-structure']
venue: "NeurIPS 2024"
tldr: "Extends the neural collapse phenomenon to multiple centers to better characterize optimal geometric structures in terminal training phases for imbalanced datasets."
---

# Neural Collapse To Multiple Centers For Imbalanced Data

**Source**: [https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/78a2ed8e7da1829d64fb3561adbd706b-Abstract-Conference.html](https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/78a2ed8e7da1829d64fb3561adbd706b-Abstract-Conference.html)

**TLDR**: Extends the neural collapse phenomenon to multiple centers to better characterize optimal geometric structures in terminal training phases for imbalanced datasets.

## Abstract

Neural Collapse (NC) was a recently discovered phenomenon that the output features and the classifier weights of the neural network converge to optimal geometric structures at the Terminal Phase of Training (TPT) under various losses. However, the relationship between these optimal structures at TPT and the classification performance remains elusive, especially in imbalanced learning. Even though it is noticed that fixing the classifier to an optimal structure can mitigate the minority collapse problem, the performance is still not comparable to the classical imbalanced learning methods with a learnable classifier. In this work, we find that the optimal structure can be designed to represent a better classification rule, and thus achieve better performance. In particular, we justify that, to achieve better classification, the features from the minor classes should align with more directions.  This justification then yields a decision rule called the Generalized Classification Rule (GCR) and we also term these directions as the centers of the classes. Then we study the NC under an MSE-type loss via the Unconstrained Features Model (UFM) framework where (1) the features from a class tend to collapse to the mean of the corresponding centers of that class (named Neural Collapse to Multiple Centers (NCMC)) at the global optimum, and (2) the original classifier approximates a surrogate to GCR when NCMC occurs. Based on the analysis, we develop a strategy for determining the number of centers and propose a Cosine Loss function for the fixed classifier that induces NCMC. Our experiments have shown that the Cosine Loss can induce NCMC and has performance on long-tail classification comparable to the classical imbalanced learning methods.