---
title: "A Study of Plasticity Loss in On-Policy Deep Reinforcement Learning"
source: "https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/ce7984e36d58659211a8dc7d5457cd6f-Abstract-Conference.html"
categories: ['reinforcement-learning-optimization-and-decision-making', 'deep-learning-optimization-and-generalization-theory']
tags: ['plasticity-loss', 'on-policy-RL', 'continual-learning']
venue: "NeurIPS 2024"
tldr: "Systematically studies plasticity loss in on-policy deep reinforcement learning, identifying causes and mitigation strategies."
---

# A Study of Plasticity Loss in On-Policy Deep Reinforcement Learning

**Source**: [https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/ce7984e36d58659211a8dc7d5457cd6f-Abstract-Conference.html](https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/ce7984e36d58659211a8dc7d5457cd6f-Abstract-Conference.html)

**TLDR**: Systematically studies plasticity loss in on-policy deep reinforcement learning, identifying causes and mitigation strategies.

## Abstract

Continual learning with deep neural networks presents challenges distinct from both the fixed-dataset and convex continual learning regimes. One such challenge is plasticity loss, wherein a neural network trained in an online fashion displays a degraded ability to fit new tasks. This problem has been extensively studied in both supervised learning and off-policy reinforcement learning (RL), where a number of remedies have been proposed. Still, plasticity loss has received less attention in the on-policy deep RL setting. Here we perform an extensive set of experiments examining plasticity loss and a variety of mitigation methods in on-policy deep RL. We demonstrate that plasticity loss is pervasive under domain shift in this regime, and that a number of methods developed to resolve it in other settings fail, sometimes even performing worse than applying no intervention at all. In contrast, we find that a class of ``regenerative'' methods are able to consistently mitigate plasticity loss in a variety of contexts, including in gridworld tasks and more challenging environments like Montezuma's Revenge and ProcGen.