---
title: "Federated Black-Box Adaptation for Semantic Segmentation"
source: "https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/ccf4a7323b9ee3e54bf77f0e876b3f8b-Abstract-Conference.html"
categories: ['privacy-preserving-federated-distributed-learning', 'generative-models-for-visual-style-and-appearance']
tags: ['federated-learning', 'semantic-segmentation', 'black-box-adaptation', 'domain-adaptation', 'privacy']
venue: "NeurIPS 2024"
tldr: "Introduces a federated black-box adaptation method for semantic segmentation that preserves privacy while improving model generalization."
---

# Federated Black-Box Adaptation for Semantic Segmentation

**Source**: [https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/ccf4a7323b9ee3e54bf77f0e876b3f8b-Abstract-Conference.html](https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/ccf4a7323b9ee3e54bf77f0e876b3f8b-Abstract-Conference.html)

**TLDR**: Introduces a federated black-box adaptation method for semantic segmentation that preserves privacy while improving model generalization.

## Abstract

Federated Learning (FL) is a form of distributed learning that allows multiple institutions or clients to collaboratively learn a global model to solve a task. This allows the model to utilize the information from every institute while preserving data privacy. However, recent studies show that the promise of protecting the privacy of data is not upheld by existing methods and that it is possible to recreate the training data from the different institutions. This is done by utilizing gradients transferred between the clients and the global server during training or by knowing the model architecture at the client end. In this paper, we propose a federated learning framework for semantic segmentation without knowing the model architecture nor transferring gradients between the client and the server, thus enabling better privacy preservation. We propose \textit{BlackFed} - a black-box adaptation of neural networks that utilizes zero order optimization (ZOO) to update the client model weights and first order optimization (FOO) to update the server weights. We evaluate our approach on several computer vision and medical imaging datasets to demonstrate its effectiveness. To the best of our knowledge, this work is one of the first works in employing federated learning for segmentation, devoid of gradients or model information exchange. Code: https://github.com/JayParanjape/blackfed/tree/master