---
title: "FedGMark: Certifiably Robust Watermarking for Federated Graph Learning"
source: "https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/57fabaa549352c52d5d312171b16970e-Abstract-Conference.html"
categories: ['privacy-preserving-federated-distributed-learning', 'graph-neural-networks-and-representation-learning']
tags: ['federated-learning', 'graph-neural-networks', 'watermarking', 'backdoor', 'robustness']
venue: "NeurIPS 2024"
tldr: "Proposes FedGMark, a certifiably robust backdoor-based watermarking scheme for protecting federated graph learning models from theft."
---

# FedGMark: Certifiably Robust Watermarking for Federated Graph Learning

**Source**: [https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/57fabaa549352c52d5d312171b16970e-Abstract-Conference.html](https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/57fabaa549352c52d5d312171b16970e-Abstract-Conference.html)

**TLDR**: Proposes FedGMark, a certifiably robust backdoor-based watermarking scheme for protecting federated graph learning models from theft.

## Abstract

Federated graph learning (FedGL) is an emerging learning paradigm to collaboratively train graph data from various clients. However, during the development and deployment of FedGL models, they are susceptible to illegal copying and model theft. Backdoor-based watermarking is a well-known method for mitigating these attacks, as it offers ownership verification to the model owner. We take the first step to protect the ownership of FedGL models via backdoor-based watermarking. Existing techniques have challenges in achieving the goal: 1) they either cannot be directly applied or yield unsatisfactory performance; 2) they are vulnerable to watermark removal attacks; and 3) they lack of formal guarantees. To address all the challenges, we propose FedGMark, the first certified robust backdoor-based watermarking for FedGL. FedGMark leverages the unique graph structure and client information in FedGL to learn customized and diverse watermarks. It also designs a novel GL architecture that facilitates defending against both the empirical and theoretically worst-case watermark removal attacks. Extensive experiments validate the promising empirical and provable watermarking performance of FedGMark. Source code is available at: https://github.com/Yuxin104/FedGMark.