---
title: "$\textit{NeuroPath}$: A Neural Pathway Transformer for Joining the Dots of Human Connectomes"
source: "https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/7d60f19a8e5766910fd1798dc953869a-Abstract-Conference.html"
categories: ['graph-neural-networks-and-representation-learning']
tags: ['brain-connectome', 'transformer', 'structure-function-relationship']
venue: "NeurIPS 2024"
tldr: "Proposes NeuroPath, a neural pathway transformer that links anatomical brain structure to functional connectivity in human connectomes."
---

# $\textit{NeuroPath}$: A Neural Pathway Transformer for Joining the Dots of Human Connectomes

**Source**: [https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/7d60f19a8e5766910fd1798dc953869a-Abstract-Conference.html](https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/7d60f19a8e5766910fd1798dc953869a-Abstract-Conference.html)

**TLDR**: Proposes NeuroPath, a neural pathway transformer that links anatomical brain structure to functional connectivity in human connectomes.

## Abstract

Although modern imaging technologies allow us to study connectivity between two distinct brain regions $\textit{in-vivo}$, an in-depth understanding of how anatomical structure supports brain function and how spontaneous functional fluctuations emerge remarkable cognition is still elusive. Meanwhile, tremendous efforts have been made in the realm of machine learning to establish the nonlinear mapping between neuroimaging data and phenotypic traits. However, the absence of neuroscience insight in the current approaches poses significant challenges in understanding cognitive behavior from transient neural activities. To address this challenge, we put the spotlight on the coupling mechanism of structural connectivity (SC) and functional connectivity (FC) by formulating such network neuroscience question into an expressive graph representation learning problem for high-order topology. Specifically, we introduce the concept of $\textit{topological detour}$ to characterize how a ubiquitous instance of FC (direct link) is supported by neural pathways (detour) physically wired by SC, which forms a cyclic loop interacted by brain structure and function. In the clich\'e of machine learning, the multi-hop detour pathway underlying SC-FC coupling allows us to devise a novel multi-head self-attention mechanism within Transformer to capture multi-modal feature representation from paired graphs of SC and FC. Taken together, we propose a biological-inspired deep model, coined as $\textit{NeuroPath}$, to find putative connectomic feature representations from the unprecedented amount of neuroimages, which can be plugged into various downstream applications such as task recognition and disease diagnosis. We have evaluated $\textit{NeuroPath}$ on large-scale public datasets including Human Connectome Project (HCP) and UK Biobank (UKB) under different experiment settings of supervised and zero-shot learning, where the state-of-the-art performance by our $\textit{NeuroPath}$ indicates great potential in network neuroscience.