---
title: "Almost-Linear RNNs Yield Highly Interpretable Symbolic Codes in Dynamical Systems Reconstruction"
source: "https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/40cf27290cc2bd98a428b567ba25075c-Abstract-Conference.html"
categories: ['recurrent-and-spiking-neural-network-dynamics', 'disentangled-representation-learning-cognitive-diagnosis']
tags: ['recurrent-neural-networks', 'dynamical-systems', 'symbolic-codes']
venue: "NeurIPS 2024"
tldr: "Almost-linear RNNs are shown to produce highly interpretable symbolic codes for reconstructing dynamical systems."
---

# Almost-Linear RNNs Yield Highly Interpretable Symbolic Codes in Dynamical Systems Reconstruction

**Source**: [https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/40cf27290cc2bd98a428b567ba25075c-Abstract-Conference.html](https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/40cf27290cc2bd98a428b567ba25075c-Abstract-Conference.html)

**TLDR**: Almost-linear RNNs are shown to produce highly interpretable symbolic codes for reconstructing dynamical systems.

## Abstract

Dynamical systems theory (DST) is fundamental for many areas of science and engineering. It can provide deep insights into the behavior of systems evolving in time, as typically described by differential or recursive equations. A common approach to facilitate mathematical tractability and interpretability of DS models involves decomposing nonlinear DS into multiple linear DS combined by switching manifolds, i.e. piecewise linear (PWL) systems. PWL models are popular in engineering and a frequent choice in mathematics for analyzing the topological properties of DS. However, hand-crafting such models is tedious and only possible for very low-dimensional scenarios, while inferring them from data usually gives rise to unnecessarily complex representations with very many linear subregions. Here we introduce Almost-Linear Recurrent Neural Networks (AL-RNNs) which automatically and robustly produce most parsimonious PWL representations of DS from time series data, using as few PWL nonlinearities as possible. AL-RNNs can be efficiently trained with any SOTA algorithm for dynamical systems reconstruction (DSR), and naturally give rise to a symbolic encoding of the underlying DS that provably preserves important topological properties. We show that for the Lorenz and Rössler systems, AL-RNNs derive, in a purely data-driven way, the known topologically minimal PWL representations of the corresponding chaotic attractors. We further illustrate on two challenging empirical datasets that interpretable symbolic encodings of the dynamics can be achieved, tremendously facilitating mathematical and computational analysis of the underlying systems.