---
title: "A Simple Remedy for Dataset Bias via Self-Influence: A Mislabeled Sample Perspective"
source: "https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/4d10e8c4a691ec3c7732cd6d7ffa13a9-Abstract-Conference.html"
categories: ['fairness-aware-machine-learning-methods', 'machine-learning-theory-and-evaluation-methods']
tags: ['dataset-bias', 'spurious-correlations', 'self-influence']
venue: "NeurIPS 2024"
tldr: "A self-influence-based method to identify mislabeled and bias-conflicting samples to remedy dataset bias without prior knowledge of bias."
---

# A Simple Remedy for Dataset Bias via Self-Influence: A Mislabeled Sample Perspective

**Source**: [https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/4d10e8c4a691ec3c7732cd6d7ffa13a9-Abstract-Conference.html](https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/4d10e8c4a691ec3c7732cd6d7ffa13a9-Abstract-Conference.html)

**TLDR**: A self-influence-based method to identify mislabeled and bias-conflicting samples to remedy dataset bias without prior knowledge of bias.

## Abstract

Learning generalized models from biased data is an important undertaking toward fairness in deep learning. To address this issue, recent studies attempt to identify and leverage bias-conflicting samples free from spurious correlations without prior knowledge of bias or an unbiased set. However, spurious correlation remains an ongoing challenge, primarily due to the difficulty in correctly detecting these samples. In this paper, inspired by the similarities between mislabeled samples and bias-conflicting samples, we approach this challenge from a novel perspective of mislabeled sample detection. Specifically, we delve into Influence Function, one of the standard methods for mislabeled sample detection, for identifying bias-conflicting samples and propose a simple yet effective remedy for biased models by leveraging them. Through comprehensive analysis and experiments on diverse datasets, we demonstrate that our new perspective can boost the precision of detection and rectify biased models effectively. Furthermore, our approach is complementary to existing methods, showing performance improvement even when applied to models that have already undergone recent debiasing techniques.