---
title: "GSDiff: Synthesizing Vector Floorplans via Geometry-enhanced Structural Graph Generation"
source: "https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/8c3d89223054a70f8938173b07541b84bf644bf1"
categories: ['topological-geometric-data-representation', 'graph-learning-clustering-multiview-federated']
tags: ['graph-generation', 'floorplan-design', 'vector-graphics']
venue: "AAAI 2024"
tldr: "Generates vector floorplans using a geometry-enhanced structural graph diffusion model to automate architectural design."
---

# GSDiff: Synthesizing Vector Floorplans via Geometry-enhanced Structural Graph Generation

**Source**: [https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/8c3d89223054a70f8938173b07541b84bf644bf1](https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/8c3d89223054a70f8938173b07541b84bf644bf1)

**TLDR**: Generates vector floorplans using a geometry-enhanced structural graph diffusion model to automate architectural design.

## Abstract

Automating architectural floorplan design is vital for housing and interior design, offering a faster, cost-effective alternative to manual sketches by architects. However, existing methods, including rule-based and learning-based approaches, face challenges in design complexity and constrained generation with extensive post-processing, and tend to obvious geometric inconsistencies such as misalignment, overlap, and gaps. In this work, we propose a novel generative framework for vector floorplan design via structural graph generation, called GSDiff, focusing on wall junction generation and wall segment prediction to capture both geometric and semantic aspects of structural graphs. To improve the geometric rationality of generated structural graphs, we propose two innovative geometry enhancement methods. In wall junction generation, we propose a novel alignment loss function to improve geometric consistency. In wall segment prediction, we propose a random self-supervision method to enhance the model’s perception of the overall geometric structure, thereby promoting the generation of reasonable geometric structures. Employing the diffusion model and the Transformer model, as well as the geometry enhancement strategies, our framework can generate wall junctions, wall segments and room polygons with structural and semantic information, resulting in structural graphs that accurately represent floorplans. Extensive experiments show that the proposed method surpasses existing techniques, enabling free generation and constrained generation, marking a shift towards structure generation in architectural design.