---
title: "Towards Open-Vocabulary Remote Sensing Image Semantic Segmentation"
source: "https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/952b5e2b280e1df5cd7ba66bf05491fee8edd3b3"
categories: ['vision-transformer-semi-supervised-learning', 'audio-multimodal-generation-and-modeling', 'vision-language-geospatial-analysis']
tags: ['remote-sensing', 'semantic-segmentation', 'open-vocabulary', 'foundation-models']
venue: "AAAI 2024"
tldr: "Enables open-vocabulary semantic segmentation of remote sensing images without predefined class sets."
---

# Towards Open-Vocabulary Remote Sensing Image Semantic Segmentation

**Source**: [https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/952b5e2b280e1df5cd7ba66bf05491fee8edd3b3](https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/952b5e2b280e1df5cd7ba66bf05491fee8edd3b3)

**TLDR**: Enables open-vocabulary semantic segmentation of remote sensing images without predefined class sets.

## Abstract

Recently, deep learning based methods have revolutionized remote sensing image segmentation. However, these methods usually rely on a predefined semantic class set, thus needing additional image annotation and model training when adapting to new classes. More importantly, they are unable to segment arbitrary semantic classes. In this work, we introduce Open-Vocabulary Remote Sensing Image Semantic Segmentation (OVRSISS), which aims to segment arbitrary semantic classes in remote sensing images. To address the lack of OVRSISS datasets, we develop LandDiscover50K, a comprehensive dataset of 51,846 images covering 40 diverse semantic classes. In addition, we propose a novel framework named GSNet that integrates domain priors from special remote sensing models and versatile capabilities of general vision-language models. Technically, GSNet consists of a Dual-Stream Image Encoder (DSIE), a Query-Guided Feature Fusion (QGFF), and a Residual Information Preservation Decoder (RIPD). DSIE first captures comprehensive features from both special models and general models in dual streams. Then, with the guidance of variable vocabularies, QGFF integrates specialist and generalist features, enabling them to complement each other. Finally, RIPD is proposed to aggregate multi-source features for more accurate mask predictions. Experiments show that our method outperforms other methods by a large margin, and our proposed LandDiscover50K improves the performance of OVRSISS methods. The dataset and method will be publicly available.