---
title: "Exploring Semantic Consistency and Style Diversity for Domain Generalized Semantic Segmentation"
source: "https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/a1ce9c0a1651cc31add667734c06944ffff222a8"
categories: ['vision-transformer-semi-supervised-learning']
tags: ['domain-generalization', 'semantic-segmentation', 'consistency']
venue: "AAAI 2024"
tldr: "Enhances domain-generalized semantic segmentation by enforcing semantic consistency and encouraging style diversity in features."
---

# Exploring Semantic Consistency and Style Diversity for Domain Generalized Semantic Segmentation

**Source**: [https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/a1ce9c0a1651cc31add667734c06944ffff222a8](https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/a1ce9c0a1651cc31add667734c06944ffff222a8)

**TLDR**: Enhances domain-generalized semantic segmentation by enforcing semantic consistency and encouraging style diversity in features.

## Abstract

Domain Generalized Semantic Segmentation (DGSS) seeks to utilize source domain data exclusively to enhance the generalization of semantic segmentation across unknown target domains. Prevailing studies predominantly concentrate on feature normalization and domain randomization, these approaches exhibit significant limitations. Feature normalization-based methods tend to confuse semantic features in the process of constraining the feature space distribution, resulting in classification misjudgment. Domain randomization-based methods frequently incorporate domain-irrelevant noise due to the uncontrollability of style transformations, resulting in segmentation ambiguity. To address these challenges, we introduce a novel framework, named SCSD for Semantic Consistency prediction and Style Diversity generalization. It comprises three pivotal components: Firstly, a Semantic Query Booster is designed to enhance the semantic awareness and discrimination capabilities of object queries in the mask decoder, enabling cross-domain semantic consistency prediction. Secondly, we develop a Text-Driven Style Transform module that utilizes domain difference text embeddings to controllably guide the style transformation of image features, thereby increasing inter-domain style diversity. Lastly, to prevent the collapse of similar domain feature spaces, we introduce a Style Synergy Optimization mechanism that fortifies the separation of inter-domain features and the aggregation of intra-domain features by synergistically weighting style contrastive loss and style aggregation loss. Extensive experiments demonstrate that the proposed SCSD significantly outperforms existing state-of-theart methods. Notably, SCSD trained on GTAV achieved an average of 49.11 mIoU on the four unseen domain datasets, surpassing the state-of-the-art method by +4.08 mIoU.