---
title: "DePLM: Denoising Protein Language Models for Property Optimization"
source: "https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/89af8e4eb696738f2c9e589522968a09-Abstract-Conference.html"
categories: ['machine-learning-for-molecular-biology', 'diffusion-based-generative-modeling-and-inference']
tags: ['protein-optimization', 'denoising', 'protein-language-models']
venue: "NeurIPS 2024"
tldr: "DePLM introduces a denoising framework for protein language models to better capture fitness landscapes for protein sequence optimization."
---

# DePLM: Denoising Protein Language Models for Property Optimization

**Source**: [https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/89af8e4eb696738f2c9e589522968a09-Abstract-Conference.html](https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/89af8e4eb696738f2c9e589522968a09-Abstract-Conference.html)

**TLDR**: DePLM introduces a denoising framework for protein language models to better capture fitness landscapes for protein sequence optimization.

## Abstract

Protein optimization is a fundamental biological task aimed at enhancing theperformance of proteins by modifying their sequences. Computational methodsprimarily rely on evolutionary information (EI) encoded by protein languagemodels (PLMs) to predict fitness landscape for optimization. However, thesemethods suffer from a few limitations. (1) Evolutionary processes involve thesimultaneous consideration of multiple functional properties, often overshadowingthe specific property of interest. (2) Measurements of these properties tend to betailored to experimental conditions, leading to reduced generalizability of trainedmodels to novel proteins. To address these limitations, we introduce DenoisingProtein Language Models (DePLM), a novel approach that refines the evolutionaryinformation embodied in PLMs for improved protein optimization. Specifically, weconceptualize EI as comprising both property-relevant and irrelevant information,with the latter acting as “noise” for the optimization task at hand. Our approachinvolves denoising this EI in PLMs through a diffusion process conducted in therank space of property values, thereby enhancing model generalization and ensuringdataset-agnostic learning. Extensive experimental results have demonstrated thatDePLM not only surpasses the state-of-the-art in mutation effect prediction butalso exhibits strong generalization capabilities for novel proteins.