---
title: "Utilizing Image Transforms and Diffusion Models for  Generative Modeling of Short and Long Time Series"
source: "https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/dc6748383752138af7f00b3185a0a404-Abstract-Conference.html"
categories: ['time-series-forecasting-and-analysis', 'diffusion-based-generative-modeling-and-inference']
tags: ['time-series-generation', 'diffusion-models', 'image-transforms']
venue: "NeurIPS 2024"
tldr: "Leverages image transforms and diffusion models to unify generative modeling of both short and long time series sequences."
---

# Utilizing Image Transforms and Diffusion Models for  Generative Modeling of Short and Long Time Series

**Source**: [https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/dc6748383752138af7f00b3185a0a404-Abstract-Conference.html](https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/dc6748383752138af7f00b3185a0a404-Abstract-Conference.html)

**TLDR**: Leverages image transforms and diffusion models to unify generative modeling of both short and long time series sequences.

## Abstract

Lately, there has been a surge in interest surrounding generative modeling of time series data. Most existing approaches are designed either to process short sequences or to handle long-range sequences. This dichotomy can be attributed to gradient issues with recurrent networks, computational costs associated with transformers, and limited expressiveness of state space models. Towards a unified generative model for varying-length time series, we propose in this work to transform sequences into images. By employing invertible transforms such as the delay embedding and the short-time Fourier transform, we unlock three main advantages: i) We can exploit advanced diffusion vision models; ii) We can remarkably process short- and long-range inputs within the same framework; and iii) We can harness recent and established tools proposed in the time series to image literature. We validate the effectiveness of our method through a comprehensive evaluation across multiple tasks, including unconditional generation, interpolation, and extrapolation. We show that our approach achieves consistently state-of-the-art results against strong baselines. In the unconditional generation tasks, we show remarkable mean improvements of $58.17$% over previous diffusion models in the short discriminative score and $132.61$% in the (ultra-)long classification scores. Code is at https://github.com/azencot-group/ImagenTime.