---
title: "Where's Waldo: Diffusion Features For Personalized Segmentation and Retrieval"
source: "https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/e73f4935d2ef5e23997de852e8a52661-Abstract-Conference.html"
categories: ['diffusion-based-generative-modeling-and-inference']
tags: ['diffusion-features', 'personalized-segmentation', 'instance-retrieval']
venue: "NeurIPS 2024"
tldr: "Diffusion model features are used for self-supervised personalized segmentation and instance retrieval."
---

# Where's Waldo: Diffusion Features For Personalized Segmentation and Retrieval

**Source**: [https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/e73f4935d2ef5e23997de852e8a52661-Abstract-Conference.html](https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/e73f4935d2ef5e23997de852e8a52661-Abstract-Conference.html)

**TLDR**: Diffusion model features are used for self-supervised personalized segmentation and instance retrieval.

## Abstract

Personalized retrieval and segmentation aim to locate specific instances within a dataset based on an input image and a short description of the reference instance. While supervised methods are effective, they require extensive labeled data for training. Recently, self-supervised foundation models have been introduced to these tasks showing comparable results to supervised methods. However, a significant flaw in these models is evident: they struggle to locate a desired instance when other instances within the same class are presented. In this paper, we explore text-to-image diffusion models for these tasks. Specifically, we propose a novel approach called PDM for Personalized Diffusion Features Matching, that leverages intermediate features of pre-trained text-to-image models for personalization tasks without any additional training. PDM demonstrates superior performance on popular retrieval and segmentation benchmarks, outperforming even supervised methods. We also highlight notable shortcomings in current instance and segmentation datasets and propose new benchmarks for these tasks.