---
title: "EnsIR: An Ensemble Algorithm for Image Restoration via Gaussian Mixture Models"
source: "https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/f12d4e75bb8c62aba3e88d0586af96d3-Abstract-Conference.html"
categories: ['diffusion-based-generative-modeling-and-inference', 'computational-imaging-reconstruction-deep-learning']
tags: ['ensemble-learning', 'image-restoration', 'gaussian-mixture-models']
venue: "NeurIPS 2024"
tldr: "Proposes an ensemble algorithm for image restoration using Gaussian Mixture Models to reduce deviation between single-model predictions and ground-truths."
---

# EnsIR: An Ensemble Algorithm for Image Restoration via Gaussian Mixture Models

**Source**: [https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/f12d4e75bb8c62aba3e88d0586af96d3-Abstract-Conference.html](https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/f12d4e75bb8c62aba3e88d0586af96d3-Abstract-Conference.html)

**TLDR**: Proposes an ensemble algorithm for image restoration using Gaussian Mixture Models to reduce deviation between single-model predictions and ground-truths.

## Abstract

Image restoration has experienced significant advancements due to the development of deep learning. Nevertheless, it encounters challenges related to ill-posed problems, resulting in deviations between single model predictions and ground-truths. Ensemble learning, as a powerful machine learning technique, aims to address these deviations by combining the predictions of multiple base models. Most existing works adopt ensemble learning during the design of restoration models, while only limited research focuses on the inference-stage ensemble of pre-trained restoration models. Regression-based methods fail to enable efficient inference, leading researchers in academia and industry to prefer averaging as their choice for post-training ensemble. To address this, we reformulate the ensemble problem of image restoration into Gaussian mixture models (GMMs) and employ an expectation maximization (EM)-based algorithm to estimate ensemble weights for aggregating prediction candidates. We estimate the range-wise ensemble weights on a reference set and store them in a lookup table (LUT) for efficient ensemble inference on the test set. Our algorithm is model-agnostic and training-free, allowing seamless integration and enhancement of various pre-trained image restoration models. It consistently outperforms regression-based methods and averaging ensemble approaches on 14 benchmarks across 3 image restoration tasks, including super-resolution, deblurring and deraining. The codes and all estimated weights have been released in Github.